README.md, before:

README
This README documents the basis of this repo and how to use it to set up a Trust's Web App to store the data

What is this repository for?
Set up a Web App for a Trust v 1.0

#License
You have been invited to use this repo

It is licensed under an AGPL 3.0 license

##How do I get set up?
**You will need to set a few things up.**

###Set up Firebase
First go and create a new Firebase account at this page
[Firebase home page](https://firebase.google.com/)
Click "GET STARTED"

Either use an existing Google Account or set a new one up.


When you choose a project name it will create a random project ID- play around with this to try and make this
as useable as possible (it affects the address of the project).
If you can get a good name it will be easier for your users.

Set up a new project (click on the + sign and chosse your name and location )

##Set up GIT
Ensure you have installed Git for your system
Follow these instructions 
https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git

###Set up Node
Ensure you have node installed with npm (got to https://nodejs.org/en/ and follow the instructions for your system)


When node is installed open a terminal (or CMD or PowerShell) 
Run 
~~~
npm install -g firebase-tools
~~~
to install the firebase CLI

then type 
~~~
firebase login
~~~
and login with your credentials (your firebase account username and password)


###Clone the repo
Clone this repo using this command in a new directory (where you wish to store the project)
`git clone https://shanester@bitbucket.org/shanester/foss-web-app.git`


You will also need to install Ionic for this process (may not have to in the future)

Run
~~~
npm install ionic
~~~


In the terminal cd into the project folder and run
~~~
npm install
~~~
It should take a bit of time and install lots of stuff



`cd` into the src folder

UPDATE THE DETAILS

Open the file `dbdetails.ts` and delete everything between the word `export` and the words `export const dbDetails`

Change the address of the firebase DB:
Go to this page
[Firebase web set up](https://firebase.google.com/docs/web/setup)
and follow the instructions on how to Add Firebase To your App
In stage 3 you will get the details of how to get the initialization snippet.
Where it says (in your own snippet)
~~~
  var config = {
      apiKey: "<API_KEY>",
      authDomain: "<PROJECT_ID>.firebaseapp.com",
      databaseURL: "https://<DATABASE_NAME>.firebaseio.com",
      storageBucket: "<BUCKET>.appspot.com",
      messagingSenderId: "<SENDER_ID>",
    };
~~~
  copy everything starting with  the `var` until after the next `};`
   
   (this is a javascript object with your project settings)

  **you don't copy these lines `firebase.initializeApp(config); </script>`**


   and paste the object into the dbdetails.ts file after the word `export `  (remember to leave a space between)


Go back to your firebase project and select the project you created.
Go to the Database menu (at the bottom) and click "Get Started"
On the left menu under the DEVELOP menu select Database
In the Database tab select the Rules tab
For now delete the rules and paste in the following
~~~
  {
    "rules": {
      ".read": true,
      ".write": true
    }
  }
~~~
and click PUBLISH
You will get the following warning

`Your security rules are defined as public, anyone can read or write to your database`

DON'T PANIC!


Go to the AUTHENTICATION option on the left menu

Choose Authentication / Sign-in Method

In Sign-In Provider click Email/Password and Enable it and Save this setting

   
   `cd` back up to the root directory (should just have to `cd ..` to get there)
   and see if everything works with 
~~~
   ionic serve
~~~

   which should spin up a local server for testing  

##When you are ready to upload:
in the root directory (may still be foss-web-app if cloned)
`firebase init`

Using the arrow keys and space bar, select 
`hosting`
so it has an asterisk next to it then press enter

Select your project that you set up earlier.
When it asks for the public directory type 
`www`

It will ask if you

`? Configure as a single-page app (rewrite all urls to /index.html)?` -select YES

It will ask you 

`? File www/index.html already exists. Overwrite?` - select NO

And it will upload your file and you should be able to access it via the web address.
   

###Contribution guidelines
*contact me (see below) if you wish to contribute

Who do I talk to?
repo owned by Shane Lester contact shanesapps@hotmail.com

Commit message:

few edits. including requirements section

README.md, after:

README
This README documents the basis of this repo and how to use it to set up a Trust's Web App to store the data

##Requirements
##Local set up
- Git (https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
- NodeJS (v8) with npm (https://nodejs.org/en/)
- Ionic ($ npm install -g ionic)
- Firebase tools ($ npm install -g firebase-tools)
##Online
- Firebase account (https://firebase.google.com/)


What is this repository for?
Set up a Web App for a Trust v 1.0

#License
You have been invited to use this repo

It is licensed under an AGPL 3.0 license

##How do I get set up?
**You will need to set a few things up.**

###Set up Firebase
First go and create a new Firebase account at this page
[Firebase home page](https://firebase.google.com/)
Click "GET STARTED"

Either use an existing Google Account or set a new one up.


When you choose a project name it will create a random project ID- play around with this to try and make this
as useable as possible (it affects the address of the project).
If you can get a good name it will be easier for your users.

Set up a new project (click on the + sign and chosse your name and location )

##Set up GIT
Ensure you have installed Git for your system
Follow these instructions 
https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git

###Set up Node
Ensure you have node installed with npm (got to https://nodejs.org/en/ and follow the instructions for your system). npm is packaged with node.


When node is installed open a terminal (or CMD or PowerShell) 
Run 
~~~
npm install -g firebase-tools
~~~
to install the firebase CLI

then type 
~~~
firebase login
~~~
and login with your credentials (your firebase account username and password)


###Clone the repo
Clone this repo using this command in a new directory (where you wish to store the project)
`git clone https://shanester@bitbucket.org/shanester/foss-web-app.git`


You will also need to install Ionic for this process (may not have to in the future)

Run
~~~
npm install ionic
~~~


In the terminal cd into the project folder and run
~~~
npm install
~~~
It should take a bit of time and install lots of stuff



`cd` into the src folder

UPDATE THE DETAILS

Open the file `dbdetails.ts` and delete everything between the word `export` and the words `export const dbDetails`

Change the address of the firebase DB:
Go to this page
[Firebase web set up](https://firebase.google.com/docs/web/setup)
and follow the instructions on how to Add Firebase To your App
In stage 3 you will get the details of how to get the initialization snippet.
Where it says (in your own snippet)
~~~
  var config = {
      apiKey: "<API_KEY>",
      authDomain: "<PROJECT_ID>.firebaseapp.com",
      databaseURL: "https://<DATABASE_NAME>.firebaseio.com",
      storageBucket: "<BUCKET>.appspot.com",
      messagingSenderId: "<SENDER_ID>",
    };
~~~
  copy everything starting with  the `var` until after the next `};`
   
   (this is a javascript object with your project settings)

  **you don't copy these lines `firebase.initializeApp(config); </script>`**


   and paste the object into the dbdetails.ts file after the word `export `  (remember to leave a space between)


Go back to your firebase project and select the project you created.
Go to the Database menu (at the bottom) and click "Get Started"
On the left menu under the DEVELOP menu select Database
In the Database tab select the Rules tab
For now delete the rules and paste in the following
~~~
  {
    "rules": {
      ".read": true,
      ".write": true
    }
  }
~~~
and click PUBLISH
You will get the following warning

`Your security rules are defined as public, anyone can read or write to your database`

DON'T PANIC!


Go to the AUTHENTICATION option on the left menu

Choose Authentication / Sign-in Method

In Sign-In Provider click Email/Password and Enable it and Save this setting

   
   `cd` back up to the root directory (should just have to `cd ..` to get there)
   and see if everything works with 
~~~
   ionic serve
~~~

   which should spin up a local server for testing  

##When you are ready to upload:
in the root directory (may still be foss-web-app if cloned)
`firebase init`

Using the arrow keys and space bar, select 
`hosting`
so it has an asterisk next to it then press enter

Select your project that you set up earlier.
When it asks for the public directory type 
`www`

It will ask if you

`? Configure as a single-page app (rewrite all urls to /index.html)?` -select YES

It will ask you 

`? File www/index.html already exists. Overwrite?` - select NO

And it will upload your file and you should be able to access it via the web address.
   

###Contribution guidelines
*contact me (see below) if you wish to contribute

Who do I talk to?
repo owned by Shane Lester contact shanesapps@hotmail.com
